{
    "Summary": "This paper studies whether a lightweight learned congestion signal can improve decoupled multi-agent scheduling. The proposed prototype, Conflict Memory Allocation (CMA), trains a small CNN on two-channel occupancy grids (agent occupancy and active-task occupancy) to predict a short-horizon congestion map. At decision time, the predicted congestion accumulated along an estimated path is added as a penalty to a greedy distance-based assignment cost. Experiments on three synthetic 20x20 warehouse layouts with varying agent counts show mixed results: the best checkpoint yields an average throughput gain of about 7.1% over the standard decoupled baseline, mainly in bottlenecked or dense-obstacle layouts at medium load, while sparse or low-load cases often show little gain or degradation. The paper emphasizes a negative-result-style conclusion: predictor validation loss is misaligned with downstream scheduling utility, since the lowest-loss checkpoint is not the one with the best end-task performance.",
    "Strengths": [
        "The paper is clear and unusually transparent about what is and is not implemented. The claims are modest and generally consistent with the reported results.",
        "The central observation that surrogate predictor quality can be poorly aligned with downstream control utility is potentially useful, especially for learned components embedded inside planning pipelines.",
        "The paper studies both throughput and a congestion proxy, and the qualitative pattern across layouts is informative: benefits appear mostly in structured bottlenecked regimes rather than uniformly.",
        "As a pilot study, the setup is simple enough that the failure modes are easy to understand."
    ],
    "Weaknesses": [
        "The paper does not realize its stated core idea. The title and motivation are about learning from MAPF conflict logs / conflict memory, but the implemented method only predicts an occupancy-based congestion proxy from current occupancy grids. This substantially weakens the claimed contribution.",
        "Related work is far too thin. The submission does not seriously engage with prior literature on MAPF, multi-robot task allocation, decoupled assignment/planning, congestion-aware assignment, or learned traffic prediction for planning. Citing essentially only a deep learning textbook is not adequate contextualization.",
        "The evaluation is weak. The paper compares only against a very simple greedy distance-based decoupled baseline, with no stronger non-learned congestion-aware heuristics, no oracle congestion map, no alternative assignment solver, and no coupled/joint MAPF-style baseline even on small instances.",
        "Model selection appears problematic. The final 30-epoch checkpoint is chosen by downstream throughput aggregated over the same 12 layout/load configurations used for reporting. Unless there is a separate held-out tuning distribution, this is effectively tuning on the evaluation setup and likely inflates the reported gain.",
        "The negative finding about validation loss versus downstream utility may be partly an artifact of the self-induced evaluation design: validation is dense-only while deployment averages sparse, bottleneck, and dense layouts. This makes the misalignment less surprising than the paper suggests.",
        "Experimental support is limited: only 5 evaluation episodes per point, no formal significance testing, no variance over training seeds, and error bars explicitly described as only qualitative.",
        "The study is small scale and synthetic: three 20x20 layouts from the same simulator, fixed task count, and narrow input representation. Generalization to unseen topologies or more realistic scheduling settings is not established.",
        "Important ablations are missing, including sensitivity to the congestion penalty weight lambda, lookahead horizon, training-target generation, path estimator, and whether the learning component beats simple hand-crafted local density heuristics.",
        "Several implementation details remain underspecified, such as how provisional assignments are generated for training targets, how the obstacle-aware path estimate is computed and tie-broken, and how throughput in tasks/minute is derived from 100-step episodes."
    ],
    "Originality": 2,
    "Quality": 2,
    "Clarity": 3,
    "Significance": 2,
    "Questions": [
        "Please clarify whether the 30-epoch checkpoint was selected using the same layout/load configurations reported in the final results. If so, can you provide results with checkpoint selection on a truly held-out tuning set or via nested evaluation?",
        "How are the provisional assignments used to generate the congestion training target obtained? Are they produced by the same greedy allocator, randomly, or by some oracle/other heuristic? This choice could materially affect the learned signal.",
        "Please compare against stronger and simpler baselines: e.g., a non-learned local density or bottleneck penalty, an oracle using the true short-horizon congestion target at decision time, and a better assignment solver than greedy matching.",
        "How sensitive are results to the penalty weight lambda, the 5-step lookahead horizon, and the path-estimation procedure used to accumulate congestion cost?",
        "Can you report results over multiple training seeds and more evaluation episodes, together with formal uncertainty estimates or significance tests?",
        "Why is the validation set dense-obstacle-only while deployment spans three layouts? Was this intentional, and what happens if validation matches the deployment mixture?",
        "Could you provide a clearer specification of the path planner / path estimator used at assignment time and the exact definition of throughput conversion to tasks per minute?"
    ],
    "Limitations": [
        "The authors do acknowledge several important limitations, especially that the current implementation is only a congestion-proxy pilot and not true conflict-memory learning from MAPF conflicts.",
        "However, the paper should more explicitly discuss the risk of evaluation-set tuning due to selecting checkpoints by downstream utility on the same configurations used for reporting.",
        "The paper should also discuss the limited external validity of the findings: all experiments are on small synthetic layouts from a single simulator, so the conclusions may not transfer to more realistic warehouse or robot-fleet settings.",
        "A practical negative impact is that miscalibrated congestion feedback can degrade performance in exactly the low-load or easy settings where the baseline is already sufficient; in real deployments this could reduce efficiency or increase local crowding around choke points. Any deployment would need safeguards and fallback mechanisms."
    ],
    "Ethical Concerns": false,
    "Soundness": 2,
    "Presentation": 3,
    "Contribution": 2,
    "Overall": 3,
    "Confidence": 4,
    "Decision": "Reject"
}